Now let's continue with our form, how shall we deal with a text area like this one,
how does this work?
Well let's go back to the form and here is my text area,
unsurprisingly, it also works with v-model,
so like this. Now I already have a node up there though,
interpolation between the text area opening closing tag like interpolating a test variable does
not work,
instead you should use v-model to set the default value if you want to do this.
Well let's bind to message here
and of course I need to create a new property named message in my data field therefore, message.
Now this could be a long text by default,
I'll simply pick a short one and you will see that this now pre-populates this message box here,
so this is how you pre-populate it and that's just important to keep in mind,
you use v-model like with other input fields
but if you want to set a default value here, don't do it between the opening and closing tag of the text
area,
use v-model for that, like you do it in other input fields but with the text area having the opening and closing
tag, you could think that you can access this between area here and use string interpolation there and
that will actually not work as intended,
so make sure to not use this area and use v-model instead.
So let me look at my data field, oh and that should be of course the password of my user data
and then here, message shall of course output my message. And with that, we see how easy it is to now also see a new
text here
and if I change that to a change text something else, well then we see, whoops, that it also updates down
there.
Now what you also see is that it doesn't keep the line break though.
What if you wanted to keep that structure, what if you wanted to keep that line break and not convert it
to a single line string, like it does right now.
Well actually it does store it multi-line,
I'm just not outputting it like this but outputting it with multiple lines is as easy as adding a new
style to my paragraph down there and that's a normal style, nothing vuejs specific.
And here you want to set whitespace to pre, that's a css option which will keep your multi-line string,
so as you can now see, I am keeping the line breaks now too, so it was a pure output styling thing not
something vuejs messed up,
it is stored as a multi-line string, that's important to understand and keep in mind. If you wanted and
sent it to a server let's say and save it there, you can contain the styling or the formatting you have
set up here
and with that, I basically mean adding line breaks in this default input field or default text area
here.